## Abstract {.page_break_before}

The integrity of the germline genome is crucial yet highly complex, involving hundreds of proteins for DNA replication, proofreading, and repair.
Despite the critical role of these proteins, mutator alleles, which lead to elevated mutation rates, have been difficult to detect in mammals.
These alleles, when mutated, could potentially alter the frequency of specific mutation types (e.g., C>T, A>G) due to their role in recognizing sequence motifs or repairing DNA damage.
In our previous research, we identified potential mutator alleles in the DNA repair gene *Mutyh* that increased the C>A mutation rate in a specific inbred mouse family, the BXDs.
In the current study, we introduce a novel method named "aggregate mutation spectrum distance" to identify alleles that cause variations in mutation spectra.
Applying this method to the BXDs, we confirmed a germline mutator allele near *Mutyh* and identified a new C>A mutator allele on chromosome 6, associated with *Ogg1*, a gene in the base-excision repair pathway.
Interestingly, the impact of the chromosome 6 mutator allele was enhanced by the presence of a *Mutyh* mutator allele, with mice carrying both alleles exhibiting significantly more C>A mutations.
Our approach not only demonstrates the interaction between mutator alleles in the germline but also offers a novel tool for analyzing mutation spectra, which could be applied to human and other model organism data, enhancing our understanding of genetic mutation mechanisms.

